Connect Control Center to Multiple Connect and ksqlDB Clusters
==============================================================

In this workflow scenario, you'll set up Confluent Control Center to connect and
monitor multiple Connect and ksqlDB clusters.

The Confluent Platform components will communicate via internal listeners with
the TLS encryption and mTLS authentication.

Before continuing with the scenario, ensure that you have set up the
`prerequisites </README.md#prerequisites>`_.

To complete this scenario, you'll follow these steps:

#. Set the current tutorial directory.

#. Deploy Confluent For Kubernetes.

#. Deploy configuration Secrets.

#. Deploy Confluent Platform.

#. Validate.

#. Tear down Confluent Platform and the tutorial environment.

==================================
Set the current tutorial directory
==================================

Set the tutorial directory for this tutorial under the directory you downloaded
the tutorial files:

::
   
  export TUTORIAL_HOME=<Tutorial directory>/controlcenter-multi-ksql-connect

===============================
Deploy Confluent for Kubernetes
===============================
  
#. Set up the Helm Chart:
  
   ::
  
     helm repo add confluentinc https://packages.confluent.io/helm
  
  
#. Install Confluent For Kubernetes using Helm:
  
   ::
  
     helm upgrade --install operator confluentinc/confluent-for-kubernetes
    
#. Check that the Confluent For Kubernetes pod comes up and is running:
  
   ::
       
     kubectl get pods

============================
Deploy configuration Secrets
============================

You'll use Kubernetes Secrets to provide credential configurations.

With Kubernetes Secrets, credential management (defining, configuring, updating)
can be done outside of the Confluent For Kubernetes. You define the configuration
Secret, and then tell Confluent For Kubernetes where to find the configuration.

To support the above deployment scenario, you need to provide the following
credentials:

* Root Certificate Authority to auto-generate certificates

* Authentication credentials for Confluent Platform components.

Provide a Root Certificate Authority
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Confluent For Kubernetes provides auto-generated certificates for Confluent Platform
components to use for inter-component TLS. You'll need to generate and provide a
Root Certificate Authority (CA).

#. Generate a CA pair to use in this tutorial:

   ::

     openssl genrsa -out $TUTORIAL_HOME/ca-key.pem 2048
    
   ::

     openssl req -new -key $TUTORIAL_HOME/ca-key.pem -x509 \
       -days 1000 \
       -out $TUTORIAL_HOME/ca.pem \
       -subj "/C=US/ST=CA/L=MountainView/O=Confluent/OU=Operator/CN=TestCA"

#. Create a Kuebernetes Secret for inter-component TLS:

   ::

     kubectl create secret tls ca-pair-sslcerts \
       --cert=$TUTORIAL_HOME/ca.pem \
       --key=$TUTORIAL_HOME/ca-key.pem

========================================
Review Confluent Platform configurations
========================================

You install Confluent Platform components as custom resources (CRs). 

The Confluent Platform components are configured in one file:
``$TUTORIAL_HOME/confluent-platform.yaml``

Let's take a look at how these components are configured.

* Configure mTLS authentication for Kafka:

  ::
  
    spec:
      listeners:
        internal:
          authentication:
            type: mtls
          tls:
            enabled: true

* Configure mTLS authentication to Kafka for other components:
 
  ::
  
    spec:
      dependencies:
        kafka:
          bootstrapEndpoint: kafka.confluent.svc.cluster.local:9071
          authentication:
            type: mtls
          tls:
            enabled: true

* Configure auto generated certificates for all server components:

  :: 
  
    spec:
      tls:
        autoGeneratedCerts: true

* Two cluster of Connect, two clusters of ksqlDB, and two clusters of Schema Registry are configured, each with a unique name. 

* Multiple Connect, ksqlDB, and Schema Registry clusters are specified under ``dependencies:`` in the Control Center section:

  ::
  
    apiVersion: platform.confluent.io/v1beta1
    kind: ControlCenter
    metadata:
      name: controlcenter
      namespace: confluent
    spec:
      dependencies:
        schemaRegistry:
          url: https://schemaregistry.confluent.svc.cluster.local:8081
          tls:
            enabled: true
          authentication:
            type: mtls
          clusters:
          - name: schemaregistry-dev
            url: https://schemaregistry-dev.confluent.svc.cluster.local:8081
            tls:
              enabled: true
            authentication:
             type: mtls
        ksqldb:
        - name: ksql-dev
          url: https://ksqldb.confluent.svc.cluster.local:8088
          tls:
            enabled: true
          authentication:
            type: mtls
        - name: ksql-dev1
          url: https://ksqldb-dev.confluent.svc.cluster.local:8088
          tls:
            enabled: true
          authentication:
            type: mtls
        connect:
        - name: connect-dev
          url: https://connect.confluent.svc.cluster.local:8083
          tls:
            enabled: true
          authentication:
            type: mtls
        - name: connect-dev2 
          url: https://connect-dev.confluent.svc.cluster.local:8083
          tls:
            enabled: true
          authentication:
            type: mtls

=========================
Deploy Confluent Platform
=========================

#. Deploy Confluent Platform with the above configuration:

   ::

     kubectl apply -f $TUTORIAL_HOME/confluent-platform.yaml

#. Check that all Confluent Platform resources are deployed:

   ::
   
     kubectl get confluent

#. Get the status of any component. For example, to check Control Center:

   ::
   
     kubectl describe controlcenter
  
========
Validate
========

Validate in Control Center
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Use Confluent Control Center to monitor the Confluent Platform, and see the
created topic and data.

#. Set up port forwarding to Control Center web UI from local machine:

   ::

     kubectl port-forward controlcenter-0 9021:9021

#. Browse to Control Center:

   ::
   
     https://localhost:9021

#. Navigate to **ksqlDB** and see two ksqlDB clusters are available for you to manage.

#. Navigate to **Connect** and see two Connect clusters are available for you to manage.

=========
Tear down
=========

::

  kubectl delete -f $TUTORIAL_HOME/confluent-platform.yaml

::

  kubectl delete secret ca-pair-sslcerts

::

  helm delete operator
  
